# C++ Benchmark Runner

The following subpackage runs benchmarks using code written in **C++**.

## Prerequisites

Several software must be installed in order to run **C++ Benchmark Runner**. The following instructions will assume that the operating system hosting this application is Ubuntu.

Before installing anything, it is recommended that you run the following:

```
sudo apt update
```

This will update the package repository to ensure you have the latest package information.

### Install Clang

The **C++ Benchmark Runner** uses [Clang](https://clang.llvm.org/get_started.html) to compile and run the benchmarks. You can download Clang using Ubuntu's built-in package manager.

1. Install Clang by running:
    ```
    sudo apt install clang
    ```

2. Verify the installation by checking the Clang version:
    ```
    clang --version
    ```
This command should display the installed version of Clang, confirming a successful installation.

### Install CMake

[CMake](https://cmake.org/) is a package managed by [Kitware](https://apt.kitware.com/) that will be used to manage the building process of the C++ based  **C++ Benchmark Runner**. You can download the latest version of CMake using Ubuntu's built-in package manager (just like with Clang).

1. Uninstall the current version of CMake (if it is already installed) by running:
    ```
    sudo apt purge --auto-remove cmake
    ```
2. Obtain a copy of Kitware's signing key:
    ```
    wget -O - https://apt.kitware.com/keys/kitware-archive-latest.asc 2>/dev/null | gpg --dearmor - | sudo tee /usr/share/keyrings/kitware-archive-keyring.gpg >/dev/null
    ```
3. Add the repository to your sources list:
    * For Ubuntu Noble Numbat (24.04)
        ```
        echo 'deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/kitware-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.kitware.com/ubuntu/ noble main' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kitware.list >/dev/null
        ```
    * For Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04)
        ```
        echo 'deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/kitware-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.kitware.com/ubuntu/ jammy main' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kitware.list >/dev/null
        ```
    * For Ubuntu Focal Fossa (20.04)
        ```
        echo 'deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/kitware-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.kitware.com/ubuntu/ focal main' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kitware.list >/dev/null
        ```
4. Update and install the new version of CMake:
    ```
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install cmake
    ```
5. Install Ninja for use with CMake:
    ```
    sudo apt install ninja-build
    ```

## Building C++ Benchmark Runner

To build **C++ Benchmark Runner**, navigate to the *c++* directory of this package, and run the following commands in order:

This command will install the third-party libraries located within the *extern* managed by Git onto your system (requires `sudo` permissions). This typically only needs to be run once, and will install the third party libraries directly into locations defined by CMake's environment variables.
```
sudo ./install_deps.sh
```

This command should be run in order to generate the initial CMake files that represent the configuration of the build. This typically only needs to be run once, and will create new files within the *target/release* folder that will be used by CMake during the build step. Note that you can add the `-d` flag (i.e. `./configure.sh -d`) to configure the build in debug mode instead (which will generate files within the *target/debug* folder). Debug mode will allow the compiler to print more detailed debug information during the compilation of the final build.
```
./configure.sh
```

This command will build **C++ Benchmark Runner** using the CMake configuration files generated with the first command. If the optional `-d` flag is passed as well (i.e. `./build.sh -d`), it will build the debug version of the application (assuming `./configure.sh -d` was run first). This can be run every time any of the application's C files is changed.
```
./build.sh
```

## Running C++ Benchmark Runner

This command will run the executable generated by the build step, passing any CLI parameters directly to the executable.
```
./run.sh -o <operation_name> -i <input_file> -c <execution_count>
```

Example: `./run.sh -o QuickSort -i ../../inputs/random_string_list.json -c 1000`